# AFFORDABLE CARE ACT

## Names of students involved
* Emma Carlson
* Nathan Grant
* Eli Corpron
* Reeya Pimple

###   Project name: Analyzing the Impact of the Affordable Care Act

###  Concept:  Show the effects and effectiveness of ACA

## Goals:
* Show changes in premiums and coverage under/after ACA 
* Visualize the shift in minority groups being covered under health insurance (i.e. who stands to benefit)
* Analyze the impact of creation of insurance exchanges in different States in US 
* Try and find reasons, or correlated trends with coverage and premium raises (eg. does a state being Republican or Democrat have any correlation)
* A description of the intended users and tasks. Remember to talk to REAL POTENTIAL USERS and include any data gathered from this research in your proposal. Proposed user personas and scenarios may be helpful here.

## Intended Tasks: 
* Identifying coverage gaps that have been amended and coverage gaps that persist despite the implementation of this act 
* Show tangible differences in coverage and premiums, instead of relying on anecdotal evidence

## Intended Users: 
* People interested in healthcare coverage, but don’t necessarily have extensive knowledge of it
* Healthcare billing employees concerned comparing with Medicaid coverage in their hospital to coverage in their state or coverage nationwide

## Discussion/links of related work if you know of any. Your projects should be original and hopefully build on the work of others.
NCLS has an article about the change in cost in premiums from 1999-2018 ( https://www.ncsl.org/research/health/health-insurance-premiums.aspx (Links to an external site.) )
Research Paper: A Critical Analysis of Obamacare: Affordable Care or Insurance for Many and Coverage for Few? ( https://www.painphysicianjournal.com/current/pdf?article=NDMwMg%3D%3D&journal=104 (Links to an external site.) )

## Roles to be performed by team members (e.g. project manager, programmer, designer, usability evaluator, etc.)

Programmer: Nate
Visualization Design: Emma
Usability Evaluator: Eli
Project Manager: Reeya

## What data will be used in the visualization. Profile the data, talk about what it contains, what the dimensions are, and how you intend to use it. Don't simply state the source of the data, but tell us a bit about what it contains!
* Healthcare Insurance Coverage: The census website has a lot of healthcare data over the years that will be really useful
https://www.census.gov/data/tables/time-series/demo/health-insurance/historical-series/hic.html (Links to an external site.)
* Income and Poverty Levels: This website contains data sets of income and poverty levels for the United States population by year

## What kinds of results you anticipate achieving and what kinds of results you would like to achieve but which you probably do not have the time or the tools for. 
* We anticipate being able to visualize the change in premiums and coverage
* We would like to analyze the impact of factors such as race, particularly at a state level, however this data doesn't exist so we would be forced to extrapolate
* We would like to investigate the sentiment over time for ACA, however there is little data out there on the matter and often succumbs to bias in how the data is collected
